# Async

One of the misconceptions about Async and Await in .Net 4.5 is that they will increase the performance of your application. In this slide we will quickly go over when Async works and if you will benefit from it.

In web applications, when we receive a request, runtime allocates a thread to handle that request. When it comes to I/O bound operations, like accessing a database of a file or network bound operations like calling a remote service, there is always a delay. For example, in the case of accessing a database, this thread has to wait until the database executes query and returns the result. Since we have a limited amount of memory and threads available in a web server, if you have a lot of concurrent users at some point you may run out of threads because many of these threads are waiting for I/O bound of network bound operations to complete. In this case we either need to add more hardware in terms of memory, or more machines, or we can use Async and Await.

When we use Async our thread will no longer wait for the database to return the result. It will be released so it can serve other requests. This does not improve the performance of our application because it does not reduce the average response time. We still have to wait for the database to return to a result, but during that wait period our threads be better utilized to serve more concurrent users. **Better scalability, not performance**. Even when it comes to scalability, Async and Await do not always improve the scalability of your application. If we are using a single SQL server, letting more requests into that single server will not increase it's performance because all of these requests will eventually have to wait for the database server to respond. However, if we use a SQL cluster or a NoSQL like Mongo or Raven designed for scalability, or SQL Azure then that's a different story.

**Async improves scalability, not performance given that you are not using SQL Cluster, NoSQL, or Sql Azure**
