# Understanding The Problem

The first step to building software is to understand the problem you're trying to solve. Many developers spend hours, days, weeks, or even months of coding without knowing exactly what problem they are solving. So we will create a real-world example.

We want to extend Vidly and add the ability to record rentals. Before starting to code, we need to understand exactly how this use case works. So we need to talk to our client, or whoever we are building this application for and ask them questions to better understand this use case. In our case, we might be given a scenario where the customer comes to the counter and gives the movies to the staff member. The staff member identifies the customer by looking them up in the application and then adds each movie in the list of movies the customer is going to rent. End of scenario.

To implement this, we have a few different options. We can start from the frontend or the backend. Both of these approached are a matter of personal preference. It is usually better to start from the backend because when you start fro the frontend you may end up coming up with a complex user interface, and this complexity can leak into your backend design. You end up over-engineering. When you start from the backend you don't care how the UI is going to look, you focus on the input and output of the application.

Our input is the customer id and the movie ids they're going to rent. How we get these is irrelevant. You may look up the customer by their name, their phone, their driving license, or whatever. These are the details that can come later. Start with the structure, not the details. In this case we don't have an output since recording the movie rentals doesn't give you anything back, just the record of the transaction.

On the backend we need an action that our frontend is going to call later on. We can put this action in an MVC controller or an API controller. Our choice depends on what we want to return to the client once the form is submitted. If you want to return markup, then we should choose an MVC controller. If we want to return data and generate markup on the client, we should use an API controller. In our application, when the user submits the form we are going to use JavaScript on the client to clear the form and also display a toast notification. So we don't need any markup from the server, so it is better to put this action in an API controller. This gives us the ability to build different types of clients in front of this API. We can build a mobile or a tablet app, or even a single page application using a framework like angular, react, ember, etc.
